Let's talk about the famous BCG
matrix.
BCG is the acronym for Boston
Consulting Group.
Boston Consulting Group is one of
the three most prestigious strategic
consultants in the world, along
with McKinsey and Bain.
The matrix is this.
You may know it, but I'm almost
sure that at some point you'
ll have heard of the concepts
that come out of this matrix
such as star products, dairy
products, interrogations,
dogs, etc.
Well, the first thing I want
you to consider is what this
matrix is for or how it is used.
In general, what we do is use
the matrix to rank your
product, your product portfolio
or business lines if you have
several.
And from this analysis or this
classification within the matrix
allows us to make decisions.
These are very strategic decisions.
Decides how, in which product I
should continue to invest, I
should focus, or where I should
invest, or I have my diversified
portfolio, or for example,
which products I should abandon,
in which products I should
de-invest.
These are decisions of this type.
Let's start by analyzing the matrix,
to see how it is structured.
As we all know, the matrix has
two axes.
We will begin by analyzing the axis of
the X, which is the horizontal axis.
What we will do is classify
our products according to
the market share we have for
each of those products on
the X axis.
And in the axis of the Y, what
we will do is to classify our
products according to whether
the market in which that product
is present is a market that
is growing or not growing.
From these two axes, we
have four blocks.
By the way, there is another perspective
that is very related to these two
axes that we will go see when we
analyze each of the blocks, which
is the generation or consumption
of cash or treasury.
For example, in markets that are
growing, the needs for investment,
for treasury consumption are higher
because you have to invest
to grow or at least it is
convenient that you invest
to grow.
Or, if we are talking about the
axis of the Y, when you have a
higher market share, in principle
what you get is that those,
those products are generators
of treasury, are more profitable,
otherwise said.
Now we will go into detail on each
of the quadrants of the matrix
and what is more important is
that we analyze what a company'
s strategy has to be in relation
not only to each of them but
to the entire portfolio.
Let us start with the questions.
The questions, in addition to
their name we explain well, are the
products in which we have not
yet had success, we still
have a low market share, but it
is true that they are in
markets that are growing.
You will understand this if you see examples.
For example, smartwatches, smartwatches
within the watch market still
have a very low share,
but it is growing.
Another clear example is
still electric cars,
clearly the electric car,
the market share on the
total car sales is very
small yet, but is
clearly a growing trend.
Well, this type of business, the
interrogations, are in which they
are not very profitable, still
a lot of development is needed,
there is a lot of uncertainty,
there is a lot of risk,
etc.
But the opportunity is also very big.
So here the question is,
well, how do we handle the
questions?
What is what we have to do?
There are basically two conclusions.
The first is that you have to have
products that are questioning, because
that is the leverage to innovate,
the leverage to diversify.
The lever, the real lever for
in the future to get to have
stars, don't stay behind.
We will reinforce that later.
And in addition, with each of
the questions you have, what you
have to do is invest, there
is no other.
These are that if you want to
grow you have to invest in.
And bear in mind that many of
them will fail and others will succeed.
By pure statistics, some will
become stars and others
will become dogs.
But it always requires investment
and risk.
And we go with the next of the
quadrants, which are the stars.
These are products in which we
have achieved a considerable
market share, but the market
continues to grow.
I will give you examples.
Facebook has a market share,
it is after Google the second
player in the market of online
advertising platforms and at
the aggregate level as well.
And it's also that it has a good
position, it's that it's also
a market that is growing very
much, it's one of the biggest stars
that exists in the world.
Netflix as well.
Netflix has a good market share
in a growing market.
Same with Cavify.
These are three clear examples of stars.
So here the question is,
well, when we get to have
a star, what is it we
have to do?
How should we manage it?
Well, the key is that you have
to invest strongly or
aggressively to grow.
And I will explain why.
You have in mind, and we also
saw it when we studied the product
life cycle, you have in mind
that markets do not grow
indefinitely.
There comes a time when markets
are stagnant, mature.
So what you have to do when
you have a star is invest
heavily to reach the highest market
share possible so that when
that time comes when the market
matures you have the best
position.
I also want you to keep in mind that
the risk of investing in stars
is lower than the risk of
investing in questions.
Well, because the uncertainty
is less.
Now let's get the next
quarter that is natural
dairy cows.
And I say it naturally because
the stars end up becoming
dairy cows.
Milk cows are the or
products from which we
live the vast majority of.
They are in which you have reached
a good position, which are not growing,
that they are not growing anymore
and that, well, because you are
comfortable, it is a mature market,
it is a market you know, it generates
treasury, it does not require
additional investments, you do not
need to invest much more, you already
have your market share.
Examples of milk cows.
The iPhone or iPad, that
many of you Apple has a
good market share in both,
in tablets and smartphones,
but they are not markets
that grow a lot.
Home, in mature markets yes, forgiveness,
in unmature markets, or
in emerging markets, forgiveness.
Or Coca-Cola, for example, is
one of the milk cows, well,
the most well-known that there is,
or McDonald's, for example.
Almost all of our households
live from dairy cows.
What do you do
with a cow?
It is very simple.
All you have to do is to harvest the
cow and generate treasure.
What we need to keep in mind is
that we should invest that treasury
permanently in innovation,
in searching for questions,
etc., or in accelerating
the growth of stars.
And we go to the last of the
quadrants, which are in which, well,
our share is low, that is, it has
not gone well, and in addition
it is that it results that the market
is declining, that this is the
most important thing of all.
Markets are not growing.
For many reasons, it may be
because customers' tastes have
changed, or because new technologies
have entered, etc.
Examples are always well understood.
The MP3 is a dog, or the
video clubs are a dog.
So what do we do with
the dogs?
Well, there are really different
situations here.
Imagine, you may be selling
MP3 and it's not really consuming
you treasury.
Well, you're earning some
money, or at least you're not losing it.
If the situation is this, well,
because it may not be so urgent that
you abandon that business line,
or that you disinvest, but if
what is happening is that you are
consuming resources, you are losing
money, or it still requires you
some focus or too much focus
of the organization, because of
the management, etc., because
there is always an opportunity
cost, what you have to do
is kill the dog, what you have
to do is disinvest, without
looking at that business line.
We will look at the matrix again
and we will make a look at the movements.
We have to invest in questions
and what we should do
is have a diversified
portfolio of questions.
Why is it?
Because a percentage of them
will become dogs and
a percentage will become stars.
The stars, we have to keep investing
the stars as the risk is lower
to win the highest market
share possible knowing that
someday they will be dairy cows.
The milk cows we have to do
is order them and the longer
the better.
And that treasury is the engine, it
is gasoline, let's say, more
than the engine, it is gasoline that
will allow us to invest
in questions, go looking for new
lines of business or accelerate
the growth of stars.
And to finish, I will share with
you two common mistakes in the
strategy of many companies.
One is to live in excess of
dairy cows and sure if you
analyze business you know
is too common this.
Innovating little is basically innovating
little.
The companies do what they do is, well,
because they have a product that gives
them money and point.
But what you have to do is
be constantly looking for
questions because that's the
only way you'll ever get
a star back.
Companies that do this well?
by Amazon.
Amazon has also sometimes been
criticized because this policy
is extreme.
It has been permanently
investing in new business
lines, buying companies,
etc., which has in some
cases lastered cash flow, lastered
results, has lastered
sometimes the quote, etc.
What we do is be constantly
innovating.
And all those you have
entered in some cases
will become stars and
future dairy cows.
That is, therefore, the first of
the mistakes, the first of the
conclusions is that you have
to permanently focus on looking
for new questions, even
though there is risk.
And two, what you can't do
is get overly caressed with dogs.
You can't allow your products
or business lines that aren't
growing, that aren't contributing
in excess, that don't have a
future, to hurt your business.
What you have to do in these cases
is to disinvest.